Remarks by DJ Gribbin at the AASHTO Washington Briefing
				Remarks			

			Infrastructure & Technology		

Issued on:
March 1, 2018
As prepared for delivery by DJ Gribbin at the AASHTO Washington Briefing
 March 1, 2018.Thank you, Bud, for that nice introduction.  And thank you, AASHTO, for the invitation to participate today.  It’s great to see so many familiar faces in the room.  Since my time as Chief Counsel at FHWA, I have appreciated the value AASHTO brings to any conversation on infrastructure.Before I begin, I’d like to acknowledge John Schroer (Tennessee DOT Commissioner and this year’s AASHTO President) and Chris Lawson (Chair of the Road Gang and FHWA Division Administrator for D.C.).[Allison, Alex, …]As AASHTO, you form the crucial link between State DOTs and the Federal Government, and it’s an opportune time for you be gathering in Washington.  As you know, the Administration has recently released its legislative plan for infrastructure, and Congress has begun considering in earnest the potential components of an infrastructure bill.We kicked off 2018 with a renewed national focus on infrastructure, and we are building momentum for a truly historic investment.While the details of a legislative plan undoubtedly will be debated at length over the coming weeks and months, we can all agree that we need to find a solution that will provide safe, strong, and reliable infrastructure for the American people.  No one knows this better than all of you who have a front-line view of the transportation infrastructure needs throughout the country.The Secretary talked about our proposal yesterday and I would be remiss in not thanking her and her Department for their leadership on this issue.  USDOT and the 11 other Cabinet members were involved in developing the President’s legislative outline.  It was a strong, collaborative effort that also incorporated key input from State and local leaders.In developing the plan, Administration officials had hundreds of conversations with State and local officials in 2017 to gather important perspectives.  On February 12, 8 Governors of both parties participated in the President’s infrastructure rollout event. This past Monday, the White House team hosted two breakout sessions with nearly 20 of the nation’s Governors who appreciated our focus on infrastructure and our approach to empowering State and local leaders.  In addition to those meetings, senior Administration officials have also connected with most Governors one-on-one in the last 3 weeks to provide an overview our infrastructure plan. In short, we recognize the importance of State leaders, and we look forward to continued engagement with them.Before I describe our plan, let me address an issue we have been asked often.  Yes, we need a long-term solution for the Highway Trust Fund.  The President has been clear that he supports working with Congress on finding a solution that is more than just a short-term, kick-the-can-down-the-road solution.In today’s conversation, however, I will focus on what we are proposing in addition to the Highway Trust Fund.While the Trust Fund is a remarkable tool, it does not solve our nation’s infrastructure challenges with water, ports, airports, and the wide variety of asset classes not Trust Fund eligible.You’re familiar with the top-line details of our plan.  Some of our priorities include:With the time I have with you today, I’d like to walk through a couple of these priorities in more detail and talk about some of the facts and the fictions associated with our plan.So in addition to the Trust Fund, we want to stimulate at least $1.5 trillion in new investment on infrastructure.  This approach is based on stretching the use and benefit of taxpayer dollars and returning decision-making to States and locals.When critics say we have put forward a plan for the $200 billion in new Federal funding that would intentionally depart from the historic approach to funding infrastructure, there is truth in that statement.However, there are a number of myths about our plan I’d like to dispel:The permitting process takes too long, is redundant, increases costs, and creates uncertainty.We can’t apply a second-rate process if we want to build the world’s best infrastructure.We are approaching this problem through legislative, regulatory, policy and cultural changes.We started with the President’s Executive Order he issued in August 2017 and that is bolstered by our legislative plan.How do we get there?  We are proposing:Let me close by saying thank you for the incredible work you do throughout the country related to infrastructure for our Nation’s many transportation modes.You are in the business of infrastructure, and I hope you are excited about what the President’s proposal could do to rebuild our infrastructure, achieve economic growth, and improve quality of life for Americans.The Administration stands ready to work with you and to work with Congress to provide the American people the upgraded infrastructure they deserve.[I look forward to taking your questions.]