Remarks by President Trump and Prime Minister May of the United Kingdom After Bilateral Meeting | Davos, Switzerland
				Remarks			

			Foreign Policy		

Issued on:
January 25, 2018
World Economic Forum Congress CentreDavos, Switzerland3:23 P.M. CETPRESIDENT TRUMP:  Well, thank you very much.  It’s an honor to be with Prime Minister May.  We’ve had a great discussion.  We’re on the same wavelength in, I think, every respect.The Prime Minister and myself have had a really great relationship, although some people don’t necessarily believe that.  But I can tell you it’s true.  I have tremendous respect for the Prime Minister and the job she’s doing.And I think the feeling is mutual from the standpoint of liking each other a lot.  And so that was a little bit of a false rumor out there.  I just wanted to correct it, frankly, because we have great respect for everything you’re doing.  And we love your country because it’s truly great.And we’re working on transactions, in terms of economic development, trade, maybe most importantly, military.  And we are very much joined at the hip when it comes to the military.  We have the same ideas, the same ideals, and there’s nothing that would happen to you that we won’t be there to fight for you.  You know that.And I just want to thank you very much.  This is a great honor to be with you.  Thank you very much.PRIME MINISTER MAY:  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  Thank you.  We’ve had — as you say, we’ve had a great discussion today.  And we continue to have that really special relationship between the UK and the United States, standing shoulder-to -shoulder because we’re facing the same challenges across the world.  And as you say, we’re working together to defeat those challenges and to meet them.And alongside that, working for a good trade relationship in the future, which will be to both our benefits.  So the UK and the U.S. both do well out of this.And it’s been great to see you today.PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Good.  Well, it’s great to see you.One thing that will be taking place over a number of years will be trade.  The trade is going to increase many times, and we look forward to that.  But the trade concepts and discussions — and the discussions, really, I think can say, most importantly that will be taking place are going to lead to tremendous increases in trade between our two countries, which is great for both in terms of jobs.And we look forward to that, and we are starting that process pretty much as we speak.  So thank you all very much for being here.  Thank you.Q    Mr. President, when will there be a state visit, do you think?PRESIDENT TRUMP:  When will be — what?  State?Q    State visit to the UK?  Is that set?PRESIDENT TRUMP:  We will talk about it.PRIME MINISTER MAY:  We’ll talk about that.PRESIDENT TRUMP:  We’re going to be talking about it.END3:26 P.M. CET